---
layout: post
title: The Power of YouTube
subtitle: Taking Advantage of Their Video Creators  
bigimg: /img/Youtube.jpg
image: /img/Youtube.jpg
---

 YouTube is one of Google's most innovative products that allows its user the ability to watch and share originally-created videos across the Internet. Since 2005, YouTube has provided a forum for people to connect,inform and inspire others across the globe and acts as a distribution platform for original content creators and advertisers large and small. As a product Google, Google has made this free video service into a powerhouse that runs online video networking services. With the development of YouTube Red, which is a paid version of YouTube that gives you the ability to see viral hits, music videos and shows that you cannot find anywhere else even on YouTube's free version network.

The benefits that are provided by Google's YouTube Red allows their customers to be able to purchase for 10 dollars monthly  the ability to skip all ads and to be able to stream music on YouTube. But as a consumer of YouTube Red you wonder where your 10 dollars is going. It's not going back to the people that created the content for your entertainment. It's going to Google, that's right the multi-billion dollar organization that you didn't even knew own YouTube.  

This paid monthly subscription services takes advantage of YouTube's unstoppable success and turn user created videos into to ways to make revenue for Google. Youtube Red's number one service is it allows the removing advertisements from all videos, everywhere you watch. This is an advantage for all the viewers that want to skip all the ads, but hurts all the creators by losing revenue sources. The only way for the creators to make money is that when there is an ad on your video to click on that ad or watch the whole ad for 30 seconds. This is not a problem for the big youtubers like; KSI, VanossGaming, Yuya, Smosh and PewDiePie, whose success came before the creation of YouTube Red, most of them even have deals with Google so they get revenue from their services on YouTube.

For the upcoming youtubers, they will always have a hard time starting up and getting their name out there and make a profit with YouTube. For instance a youtuber like PeteZahHutt, which is an average youtuber with only 800,000 subscribers makes and edits videos everyday for his viewers only get profits with people that watch ads. with the creation of YouTube Red, PeteZahHutt had to make money from outside source (his outside source is App design). Other youtubers like him are not so lucky and finding outside source of money, which caused them to quit their dream job of making videos. The fans of these channels lose watching daily videos that entertain them everyday.

With the power of Internet in today's age the amount of viewers on YouTube is rising and rising everyday. But with this rise of viewership Google believes they need to add more ads to their videos which at the time help the smaller youtubers. But with the development of Youtube Red the money from the ads went away from going to the youtubers but going to directly to Google. Which Google doesn't need to do and take the hard earn cash from their video creators because they already make over 4 billion dollars a year off YouTube itself. A solution to this problem is to keep YouTube Red but Google pays there video creators a small profit of revenue based on their viewership.          

Like most of the online world, YouTube is ran on Ads to power it and with the addition of YouTube Red that powers has gone towards the big name youtubers to keep it running. Google should strongly consider the idea of paying a little bit of money to all there youtubers that provide views to there website, so they don't have to find an outside source ways to make revenue. YouTube was created so people could connect, inspire,entertain and teach others around the world with original content. Like Google's motto "Don't be evil", YouTube a product of Google, should not take advantage of their video creators.          













<a title="YouTube" href="https://flickr.com/photos/esthervargasc/9774282571">YouTube</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/esthervargasc">clasesdeperiodismo</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-SA) license</a> </small>
